---
title: "Welcome to version 3 of this website! 🎨"
date: "2023-01-11"
description: "Lots of improvements!"
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1513364776144-60967b0f800f?ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80&fm=jpg&crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&w=4800
---

Hello! 👋

I’ve been running this current iteration of my website for three years now. Where did the time go? Since I created this website, I’ve made several gradual improvements to this website. From new pages, to some CSS adjustments.

But the more I looked at my website, the more areas I could find which could be improved. So, as it’s the start of a new year, I decided to make several new changes to the website (and fix some issues)!

# What’s new in version 3?

- New background colour
- New favicon
- New fonts
    - [DM Sans](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/DM%2BSans)
    - [Bebas Neue](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Bebas+Neue?query=Bebas+Neue)
- Improved mobile view for the blog page
- Improved desktop/tablet view for the blog page
- Resolved a ‘mystery’ issue for Safari users where the top of the status bar would be purple (and also the background when pulling/scrolling the screen down would be purple)
- New image added to the blog page
- Images associated with blog posts are now clickable
- The ‘Get in touch’ button on the home page has been shrunk down.
- Removed freeCodeCamp icon from footer
- Updated packages (it’s good to keep them updated)

Let’s quickly explain several of the big changes

# The improved blog page

Yeah, the blog page needed some work to it. Originally (for those who remember), the blog page didn’t have an image associated for each post. I added images last year but there have been a few things that have bugged me since I made that change.

- The mobile view was awful. The images were squashed and the description of the post would ‘spill’ over. It really looked bad on a mobile device.
- There was so much empty space on each side of an blog entry when viewing the blog page on a desktop.
- The text was slightly small.
- The images were not clickable.

The blog page has seen the most improvements in version 3 of the website. Hopefully the improvements make an impact!

# The mystery Safari issue

So this was something that I don’t think anyone has really noticed. Basically, if you were viewing this website on the Safari web browser, you’d see a purple bar at the top, and a purple bar at the bottom if you pulled the web page down. It’s been bugging me for ages!

It got me thinking **“where is the browser getting this purple colour from?”**. After looking through my code, I finally found the cause of the issue. It seems that the Gatsby config file had two properties called background colour and theme colour, both shared the same value of #663399. Which happens to be the purple colour that I was seeing.

After removing the properties, the issue was resolved!

# The new favicon

Yes, the lightning bolt is gone. Instead, I have a new one! This one is the [technologist](https://emojipedia.org/google/15.0/man-technologist/) from [Google Noto Colour Emoji](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Color+Emoji). Since this blog is about tech, it makes sense to use the technologist, right?

Let me know what you think of the new favicon!

# The new blog header image

The blog is called ‘It works on my machine’, a phrase that everyone who works in software development will know and understand. And recently I thought it might be good to have an accompanying image with the title.

I’ve had this particular image saved for years and I think it sums up a scenario so many have seen or gone through.

Plus, the fact that it’s Godzilla characters makes it even better. 

# New fonts

I decided to update the fonts used on the links on the website to something that’s a bit more modern. I did also look at updating the font used for the paragraph text, but I decided to stick with [Vollkorn](http://vollkorn-typeface.com/).

And that's a brief summary of the changes that I've made for version 3 of this website!

Let me know what you think!